Tłumaczenie (#2)
coders-school/cmake: module1/02_cmake.en.md

___

> ## Building with CMake'a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Building with CMake
```

```bash
mkdir build     # create a directory with the results of the building
cd build        # enter this directory
cmake ..        # generate the build system by specifying the path to the CMakeLists.txt file
cmake --build . # build a project
```

`cmake --build` can be changed for `make` if we're sure, that we're generating Makefile.
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

`cmake --build` is universal.
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

___

## Exercise

> Write simple CMakeLists.txt for program from `greeter` directory, build it with `cmake` and run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write simple CMakeLists.txt for program from `greeter` directory, build it with `cmake` and run it.
```

> Notice that there is also a tests. Write additional target for tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that there are also tests. Write additional target for tests.
```

___

## Q&A

___

## CMake - variables

Variables are created with `set` command
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

```cmake
set(VARIABLE value)  # Convention - UPPERCASE_WITH_UNDERSCORE
```
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

For example
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

```cmake
set(NAME TheGreatestProject)
```
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

We refer to them later by enclosing them in `{}` parentheses and preceding them with the `$` sign
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

```cmake
add_executable(${NAME} main.cpp)
```
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

That will create a target `TheGreatestProject` in which `main.cpp` file will be compiled
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

___

## CMake - predefined variables

CMake supplies several variables by default. Referring to them directly or modifying them is usually not considered good practice.
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

> We can use the `$ {PROJECT_NAME}` variable without any problems. It contains the project name defined by the `project ()` command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, we can use the `$ {PROJECT_NAME}` variable without any problems. It contains the project name defined by the `project()` command
```

### Problem
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

Duplicated list of files in different "targets"
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

___

### Problem #1

Duplicated list of files in different "targets"

### Solution
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

Putting a list of files into a variable
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

## Exercise
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

Put a list of files into a variable and use it
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

___

### Problem #2

Minor differences in files between targets
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

### Solution
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

Creating a library
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

___

## Libraries

> My library definition - a cluster of multiple cpp files without the `main ()` function. Therefore, the library cannot be run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
My library definition - a cluster of multiple cpp files without the `main()` function. Therefore, the library cannot be run.
```

<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

### Analogy to object oriented programming
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

> * <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> Library = class (base)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" --> Library = (base) class
```

```
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

### Exercise
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

Add build flags `-Wall -Wextra -Werror -pedantic -Wconversion -O3` to the greeter project
<!-- .element: class="fragment fade-in" -->

___

> ## Enabling the C ++ 17 standard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enabling the C++ 17 standard
```
